-------------------------------------------
Polka! v1.2       - by Wolf (november 2004)
-------------------------------------------


What is it?

     A cute little tool to draw tiles for MSX screen 2 and screen 4. Typically those tiles
     are used in demos and/or games.

Legal?

     Sell: NO
     Use freely: YES
     Publish on a paper-magazine's 'extras cd/disk': YES
     Modify one or more bits of the contents of the Polka!-package, and spread: NO
     Spread to let others enjoy: YES
     Enjoy Polka! yourself: YES
     Put it on a free-download website: YES



Explanation of the picture

lmb: left mousebutton
rmb: right mousebutton
fc:  foreground color
bc:  background color

1    Tiles
     lmb: select
     rmb: copy selected

2    Grid
     off | 1x1 | 2x2 | 4x4

3    Coordinates
     xTile | yTile | Pattern

4    Zoom grid

5    Transport filter
     bc | pattern | fc

     This is used in combination with 6 and 7, by switching on/off these parts
     you define which parts will be copied with 6 and 7. It's for example possible
     to 'import' the bc of another tile this way..

6    Get tile
     copies the selected tile to the zoom editor, using the filters described in 5

7    Store tile
     copies the contents of the zoom editor to the tiles, using the filters described in 5

8-10 Zoom editor

8    bc
     lmb: draw selected color into the bc
     rmd: color pick-up

8    pattern editor
     lmb: draw forground
     rmd: draw background

10   fc
     lmb: draw selected color into the fc
     rmd: color pick-up

11   Modify filter
     This defines which parts of the zoom editor will be affected by the modiers.
     Note: bc and fc will only be affected by 'vertical modifiers'.

12   Modifiers
     - Shift
     - Rotate CCW and CW
     - Mirror

13   Monocolor
     This hides all colors from bc and fc and purely shows the pattern in 2 colors.

14   RGB editor
     Use this editor to modify your colors. It only works when the palette is unlocked.

15   Preview
     This shows the contents of the Zoom editor tiled.
     lmb/rmb: switch between 3x3-view or single-view

16   Palette Lock
     This protects the palette from modification

17   MSX
     Sets the palette to the MSX1 palette. Only works when the palette is unlocked

18   Reset
     Pressing this button clears the pattern from the zoom-editor and sets the two colors
     next to the button to bc and fc. Those colors can be changed.

19   Palette
     lmb: select color
     rmb: copy selected color. Only works when the palette is unlocked.

20   File I/O

     While editing, the user solely works with ppr files. The patterns, colors and palette
     can be exported to various styles. (21)
     ASM: all contents in dw or db tables
     BAS: patterns and colors are raw and contain a header, palette is a basic-subroutine
     RAW: raw data, no headers.
     
     New in v1.2 top-right is a default-directories button. It was made rather quickly,
     perhaps the design could be somewhat better, but once you get the grips on it, you'll
     like it!
     Clicking it pops-up a new window with at the left side 10 available directories, and
     at the right side 18 fileformats, of which (in v1.2) 5 are used. Using the LMB on the 
     left column (on a directory-slot of your choice) enables you to set the directory for 
     that slot. On the right side you can use LMB to select a fileformat. To link a 
     directory-slot to a fileformat, use RMB on the preferred directory-slot. The number of
     the fileformat-block now changes to the number of the directory-slot. When you close 
     the window the polka.ini file is automatically updated. If you didn't have a polka.ini 
     yet, or you deleted it for some reason, a new one will be made and all directory-slots
     point to the application-dir.

     note: when you pop-up this window, the focus remains on that window, meaning that if
     you want to draw again, you need to close this window first!

     note 2: There seems to be a bug in Blitzplus (the language in which Polka was made). 
     For the moment I don't know how to fix it, but until then: avoid using the application 
     dir for your projects and other files. That is, you can use it ofcourse, but no matter 
     what, you'll always end up in My Documents .. o_O . Funny detail tho is that this only 
     happens with the exe file, not with the Polka project inside the Blitzplus editor.

21   Export types

22   Draw modes

     Left column, from top to bottom:
     - normal
     - block
     - draw block
     - use

     The column next to this column has additional features related to the left column:
     - normal
       - set RMB to copy
       - set RMB to swap
     - block
       - save block
       - copy block
       - delete block
       - apply block area on 'use'
     - draw block
       - load block
     - use
       - invert selection
       - set all to 'unused'

     Block load/save is handy for making your own lib of elements, like canons, trees,
     space-ships, enemies etc. In a .p file, the palette is not saved, only the patterns
     and the colortables
     After loading a block file, click on the 'draw block' n the left column (which is the
     mode for drawing loaded blocks!). The block stays in memory until you load another
     block.
     Block-copy does the same, but then without save/load.

     With the 'use' function you can select and deselect tiles. Selected tiles will be
     saved, this only works when using ASM mode and when saving patterns and colortables.
     This is suitable when you make a font for example, there's no need for a whole file
     with 32x8 tiles, and a font probably doesn't fit in a .p file (which is always
     rectangle). The use settings are saved in the ppr file (the project file).
     If you click the 'use' from the block menu, everything in 'use' is overwritten with 
     the new block-related data!

23   SME cursors (Store-Move-Edit)

     These cursors do as the title says, it saves you from using the transportbuttons (6&7)
     so it's a little faster this way. Note that it stores on the location of the selected
     tile and moves from there. If you move the selected tile before using the SME buttons
     then a tile will be stored at that new location, and moves from there.

24   Foreground & Background copy/paste

     The [ C ] copies the foreground and background colors, and [ P ] pastes them. Handy in
     combination with the SME buttons

25   Swapmode

     The benefits of this function might not be clear at first sight, but they will when in 
     a later update you can import ge5 and sc5 pictures. What it does is: it swaps the 
     foreground color and background color of the selected row, and inverts the pattern. 
     This way you don't see anything changing except the backgroundcolor and foreground
     color.
     It sometimes happens that you are drawing something and you change the background and
     foreground colors a lot to get the desired result. If you wish to keep the background 
     color as 'real' background, and the foreground as 'real' foreground (think of a brown
     tree with blue air in the back) then you can use the swap-function if for some reason 
     the foreground and background colors are mixed-up. The logical foreground and 
     background can be analysed in monocolor-mode (13).
     When in the future there will be support for bitmap formats (such as ge5 and sc5) the
     chances are big that the foreground and background colors are pretty mushc mixed-up.
     Now, for typical games, it doesn't really matter, but for games that move for example
     the background colors to fake a scroll, it does matter!
     
.



